[MUSIC]
>> Brain: So let's do delete first, cuz
we're gonna define pop in terms of delete.
>> Brain: So if (index === 0)
{ const head = this.head;
if (head) { this.head
= head.next; }
>> Brain: Else
this.length--; return head.value;.
So basically, the first thing we're doing
is we're checking to see if we're trying
to delete the head.
And if we're trying to delete the head
then, we kinda have to do some special
handling around that because we have to
be able to point at the correct head.
We're also not really handling
the tail right here, and
if head's gonna be null then
tail's also gonna be null.
So, you can also say
this.tail = null; as well.
>> Brain: Yeah, that'll work.
I'm not testing for
it which is why it's not doesn't
this that have to be in there, okay?
So that handles that
special case otherwise,
make sure I'm in the right one, okay?
So you're gonna say, const node
= this._find(index-1), right?
So we're looking for
the thing that's before it,
and then we're gonna use
this.testIndex to find that, right?
>> Brain: Then the node
that we're gonna excise,
it's gonna be const excise = node.next,
right?
That's what we're actually
gonna end up deleting and
then if there is no excise
>> Brain: Then
you're just gonna return null.
If there's nothing to delete then
don't delete it, that's fine.
Okay, node.next = excise.next.
So basically grab the node that you're
gonna delete, and then take its next and
make that the previous node's next.
>> Brain: And here, this one's fun.
If node.next.next, so
you're going two hops now.
Then this is the tail right?
That's basically what's going on here.
So this.tail = node.next; you can wrap
that into curly braces if that helps.
>> Brain: And then finally, you're gonna
document the length no matter what and
return next A stop value.
>> Speaker 2: You're testing
next above these in underscore.
>> Brain: Thank you.
Yes it does.
Return excise.value.
>> Brain: Okay, so
now we made delete work, okay good,
you can see down here that's working.
So now let's go implement pop in terms of
delete, so we're not repeating ourselves.
So if you look at the answer
actually do separate it,
and do pop and delete separately.
But you don't have
to, so pop() {
return this.delete
(this.length-1)
>> Brain: Can't read properly next of
null, can't read property next to null.
Let's see, get rid of that.
>> Brain: So that's gonna be wrong,
cuz it's gonna delete the wrong thing.
>> Brain: Did I implement this?
I must have not implemented
this correctly.
So, let's step through it.
>> Brain: Again,
the dangers of live coding, right?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brain: [LAUGH] Okay, so
passing in here index.
So let's just say,
console.log(index);
>> Brain: And
get the console up here as well.
>> Brain: Okay, so now we're getting.
>> Brain: So if it's the tail, it' not
gonna hit the indexes equals zero, right?
So here, we must do find.
And find using test index for
the last index in there, so that's fine.
That should work.
Should find the ones just before it.
And then this should be the tail, right?
Node.next.
>> Brain: I think you have to say,
if node.next.
>> Brain: That might be it.
Yep.
So I was referencing next right here,
which in some cases,
well in the case of popping off the back,
the node.next was gonna be null,
so you can't look at next of null, right?
That's what was happening.
Okay, that was a bug,
congratulations, we found it.
And there we go, linked list.
Ta-da!
[LAUGH] It's like a magic trick.
Just a long drawn out magic trick.
Okay, so any questions about Linked Lists?
Good news as we are done
with lists [LAUGH].
I feel like when you're talking
about data structures and
algorithms you just have
to talk about those right?
Because the trade offs that you make with,
they're not super fun to implement but
the trade off's that you have to
make to enable to decide if I want
an array list or a leans list.
I feel like those are important trade
offs to be able to be making in
your mind, right?
Do I need to be optimizing for
reads and deletes.
Basically the mind path of going down,
what am I going to be doing and
what can I optimize for, right?
That's important ways to
be thinking about problems.
And those are trade offs that we as
web developers have to make a lot.
So you might not necessarily be, am I
gonna use links list or anything like that
but it might be I don't know, other code
paths you might have to optimize for.
It's the way of thinking that I
really want to impart to you.